- [Instructor] Let us do a recap
of inter-service communication.
Modern software applications no longer reside
in a monolith today.
This big block of code, which is the monolith,
is divided into smaller units,
which are independent and autonomous.
They can be efficiently maintained
and they are highly scalable.
Let us take a look at a typical micro-services system.
A user service, an order service, and a payment service.
These three services manage the shopping orders
for their customers.
When a request comes into the system via a client,
let's say a web browser or a mobile app,
the entire process starts with user service.
The user can log in
and then can either retrieve orders or create new orders.
For this, the user service will talk to the order service.
When an order needs to be checked out,
the order service will talk to the payment service
to facilitate the payment of the checkout.
The payment service can then in turn talk
to the user service
to retrieve any user specific information
to complete the payment.
These three services can talk
to a data store, like a database,
or can even communicate with an external service
for any other cross-cutting concern
that the entire system requires.
So essentially, these three services will collaborate
with each other by passing messages between them.
These messages can be passed
in a synchronous or in an asynchronous fashion.
Asynchronous message passing is when you place messages
in logical cues so that the services can pick them up
in the background and carry on
with their further processing.
Let us see how the inter-service communication
has evolved over the last few years.
We started with RPC, Remote Procedural Call.
In this, the client invokes a procedure
on the server site in a different address space.
As if the client was trying to call the function locally.
RPC
uses TCP protocol
which hinders inter operability.
RPCs are overwhelmingly complex to implement.
It induces a certain amount of vulnerability
because you're trying to connect
to a different system in a different address space.
And hence also incurs a lot of costs.
Popular implementations of RPC
are Java RMI, CORBA, etcetera.
Owing to limitations of RPC,
we switched to a new standard, SOAP,
Simple Object Access Protocol.
This specification was designed and promoted
by a number of big enterprises.
SOAP is based on the services oriented architecture,
or as we say, the SOA principle.
In this,
the client and the server exchange data in the form of XML.
And since it is XML, it can be implemented across platforms
and systems, which are completely different from each other.
SOAP works over both DCP and HTTP protocol.
SOAP is prevalent in a lot of legacy services today
because there are a few limitations.
XML is difficult to deal with.
It has a strict set of rules
that you need to know to work with it.
Which means even the smallest string message transmitted
between the client and the server amounts to a heavy payload
which eventually leads to performance issues.
Agility of distributed applications are a problem
to implement with the SOAP specification.
Hence, we moved on to REST.
REST is a specification in which you define
the methods of a service.
And a service then is a bunch of resources,
each with a unique identifier, URL.
REST works only with HTTP protocol.
REST is the de facto standard
for implementing microservices today.
However, it also comes in with a few limitations.
Firstly, REST has text-based message calls.
The client always produces data in a binary format.
It has to be converted to text
to get transmitted over the HTTP protocol.
That is because HTTP understands only text.
When the response is received on the server side,
the server has to convert that message
from text again to binary.
So this conversion from binary to text
and text to binary amounts to performance overhead.
REST only exposes CRUD,
or CRUD behaviors, create, read,
update, delete.
And these behaviors has got a set name of methods
that you need to define in your service
The names of those methods are, get ghost, put
delete, patch, etcetera.
Which means if you need
to give a custom name to your method,
you will always have to work around these set names
in order to expose your specific API.
This becomes a little cumbersome in the long run.
REST does not define strict interface types.
Even when you have open API or swagger specifications,
it is not tightly bound with the underlying architecture
or the message in protocol.
The service and the type definitions
are sometimes not even written completely before
the implementation gets started.
At times, the developers even just look over the wire
for the data format and code the functionality accordingly.
This results in incompatibility, inconsistency
and a lot of runtime problems when the calls are made.
So then what do you do
in order to overcome these limitations of REST?
The answer to that question is,
let's switch to the gRPC framework.